wire rope fatigue - Search Results - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search Page Search: Search Advanced Create alert Create RSS Clipboard User Guide Filters 0 Timeline Sort by: Best match Most recent Publication date First author Journal Display options Display options Format Summary Abstract PubMed PMID Per page 10 20 50 100 200 Abstract snippets Show Hide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Save citations to file Selection: All results on this page All results Selection Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citations Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Selection: All results on this page All results Selection Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Send citations to clipboard Selection: All results on this page All results Selection Send Cancel Add to Collections Selection: All results on this page All results Selection Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography Selection: All results on this page All results Selection My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Selection: All results on this page All results Selection Create file Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: wire rope fatigue Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Filters My Custom Filters Edit custom filters Results by year Expand/collapse timeline Reset Table representation of search results timeline featuring number of search results per year. Year Number of Results 2017 1 2019 1 2022 1 2025 1 2026 1 Publication date 1 year 5 years 10 years Custom Range Start Date End Date Clear Apply Text availability Abstract Free full text Full text Article attribute Associated data Article type Books and Documents Clinical Trial Meta-Analysis Randomized Controlled Trial Review Systematic Review See all article type filters Additional filters Additional filters Article Language English Spanish See all article language filters Species Humans Other Animals Sex Female Male Age Child: birth-18 years Adult: 19+ years Aged: 65+ years See all age filters Other Exclude preprints MEDLINE Clear applied filters Reset filters menu Search Results clear all 5 results Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Clear selection Page of 1 Results by year Expand/collapse timeline Reset Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Clear selection Filters applied: . Clear all Select search result to email or save Page 1 1 Cite Numerical Investigation of 1 7 Steel Wire Strand under Fretting Fatigue Condition. Ahmad S, Badshah S, Ul Haq I, Abdullah Malik S, Amjad M, Nasir Tamin M. Ahmad S, et al. Materials (Basel). 2019 Oct 23;12(21):3463. doi: 10.3390/ma12213463. Materials (Basel). 2019. PMID: 31652687 Free PMC article. Wire ropes undergo a fretting fatigue condition when subjected to axial and bending loads. The fretting behavior of wires are classified as line contact and trellis point of contact. The experimental study on the fatigue of wire ropes indicates … Wire ropes undergo a fretting fatigue condition when subjected to axial and bending loads. The fretting behavior of wires … Cite Item in Clipboard 2 Cite Mechanical Behavior and Performance Degradation of Structural Cables in Buildings: A Comprehensive Review. Chen X, Zhang H, Liu H, Wang J, Zhang Y, Guo L, Chen Z, Kosior-Kazberuk M, Krassowska J. Chen X, et al. Materials (Basel). 2025 Dec 7;18(24):5502. doi: 10.3390/ma18245502. Materials (Basel). 2025. PMID: 41470275 Free PMC article. Review. The mechanical responses and influencing factors pertaining to major types of cables-such as semi-parallel wire strand (SPWS), Galfan-coated steel strand (GSS), and full-locked coil wire rope (LCR)-are thoroughly examined. This review covers five critical asp … The mechanical responses and influencing factors pertaining to major types of cables-such as semi-parallel wire strand (SPWS), Galfan … Cite Item in Clipboard 3 Cite Numerical Simulations and Bending Fatigue Experiments of Compensation Ropes Adopted in Highspeed Railway. Zhao Y, Zhao Q, Li F, Zhang H, Du F, Yu X, Zhao A. Zhao Y, et al. Materials (Basel). 2026 May 11;19(10):1983. doi: 10.3390/ma19101983. Materials (Basel). 2026. PMID: 42195621 Free PMC article. These ropes are specially designed as right-hand alternating lay wire ropes. During tension compensation of the contact wire , the compensation rope undergoes repeated bending around the ratchet device, making it susceptible to fatigue fracture. ...Furt … These ropes are specially designed as right-hand alternating lay wire ropes. During tension compensation of the contact wire , … Cite Item in Clipboard 4 Cite Design and characteristics analysis of a new vibration reduction system for in service long span transmission tower. Liu J, Li Z, Liu W, Hu C, Zhang C. Liu J, et al. Sci Rep. 2022 Jul 5;12(1):11373. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-15659-9. Sci Rep. 2022. PMID: 35790784 Free PMC article. In order to reduce the harm of wind vibration, this paper takes the 500 kV Jiamusi region ISLSTT (in service long span transmission tower) as the research object, and a new kind of vibration reduction system is proposed based on a steel wire rope damping structure, … In order to reduce the harm of wind vibration, this paper takes the 500 kV Jiamusi region ISLSTT (in service long span transmission tower) a … Cite Item in Clipboard 5 Cite Effects of Strand Lay Direction and Crossing Angle on Tribological Behavior of Winding Hoist Rope . Chang XD, Peng YX, Zhu ZC, Gong XS, Yu ZF, Mi ZT, Xu CM. Chang XD, et al. Materials (Basel). 2017 Jun 9;10(6):630. doi: 10.3390/ma10060630. Materials (Basel). 2017. PMID: 28772992 Free PMC article. In this research, a series of experiments were conducted using a self-made test rig to study the effects of the strand lay direction and crossing angle on the winding rope 's tribological behavior. Results show that the friction coefficient in the steady-state period shows … In this research, a series of experiments were conducted using a self-made test rig to study the effects of the strand lay direction and cro … Cite Item in Clipboard Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM First Prev Page of 1 Next Last Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] ARTICLE TYPE Adaptive Clinical Trial Address Biography Books and Documents Case Reports Clinical Study Clinical Trial Clinical Trial Protocol Clinical Trial, Phase I Clinical Trial, Phase II Clinical Trial, Phase III Clinical Trial, Phase IV Clinical Trial, Veterinary Collected Work Comment Comparative Study Conference Proceedings Consensus Statement Controlled Clinical Trial Corrected and Republished Article Dataset Duplicate Publication Editorial Electronic Supplementary Materials English Abstract Equivalence Trial Evaluation Study Evidence Synthesis Expression of Concern Festschrift Guideline Historical Article Interview Introductory Journal Article Lecture Letter Meta-Analysis Multicenter Study Network Meta-Analysis News Observational Study Observational Study, Veterinary Patient Education Handout Personal Narrative Practice Guideline Pragmatic Clinical Trial Preprint Published Erratum Randomized Controlled Trial Randomized Controlled Trial, Veterinary Research Support, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural Research Support, N.I.H., Intramural Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S. Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S. Research Support, U.S. Gov't Retracted Publication Retraction Notice Review Scoping Review Systematic Review Twin Study Validation Study Video-Audio Media Webcast Cancel Apply Close dialog ARTICLE LANGUAGE Afrikaans Albanian Arabic Armenian Azerbaijani Bosnian Bulgarian Catalan Chinese Croatian Czech Danish Dutch English Esperanto Estonian Finnish French Georgian German Greek, Modern Hebrew Hindi Hungarian Icelandic Indonesian Italian Japanese Kinyarwanda Korean Latin Latvian Lithuanian Macedonian Malay Malayalam Maori Multiple Languages Norwegian Persian Polish Portuguese Pushto Romanian Russian Sanskrit Scottish gaelic Serbian Slovak Slovenian Spanish Swedish Thai Turkish Ukrainian Undetermined Vietnamese Welsh Cancel Apply Close dialog AGE Child: birth-18 years Newborn: birth-1 month Infant: birth-23 months Infant: 1-23 months Preschool Child: 2-5 years Child: 6-12 years Adolescent: 13-18 years Adult: 19+ years Young Adult: 19-24 years Adult: 19-44 years Middle Aged + Aged: 45+ years Middle Aged: 45-64 years Aged: 65+ years 80 and over: 80+ years Cancel Apply Close dialog Filters on the sidebar will be reset to the default list and any currently applied filters will be cleared. Confirm [x] Back to Top Jump to page Close dialog of 1 Jump NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov