source: https://patents.google.com/patent/US11422051B2/en
retrieved: 2026-09-04 (direct curl, user-agent Mozilla/5.0)
claim_section_chars: 4538

Claims ( 19 ) The invention claimed is: 1. A device comprising: a housing enclosing a chamber and having at least one port that communicates with the chamber, a pressure sensor receiving fluid pressure from the chamber, the chamber having compliance that exhibits a marked change in volumetric stiffness repeatably at a fixed pressure, wherein the pressure sensor is located in the housing and within an enclosure and sealed from the chamber, the enclosure being filed with an incompressible liquid and the pressure in the enclosure is transferred to the pressure sensor through the incompressible liquid, wherein the device further comprises: a flexible wall portion forming part of a wall of the chamber, a sealed cavity divided from the chamber by the flexible wall portion, such that an increasing pressure in the chamber causes increasing deflection of the flexible wall portion, the sealed cavity comprising a structure in a form of at least one upstand such that as the pressure in the chamber transitions through a first pressure, part of the wall portion transitions from being in contact with the structure of the cavity to being out of contact with the structure. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the flexible wall portion forms part of the wall of the chamber and the sealed cavity is divided from the chamber by the flexible wall portion such that the pressure in the chamber rises from the first pressure to a second pressure, the size of the sealed cavity is reduced and the size of the chamber is increased. 3. The device as claimed in claim 2 , wherein the flexible wall portion comprises a diaphragm and portions of the diaphragm permits continued deflection at pressures above and below a contact pressure. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3 , wherein the flexible wall portion is out of contact with the structure at pressures below the first pressure, and in contact with the structure at pressures above the first pressure. 5. The device as claimed in claim 2 , wherein there is no additional detector for determining contact of the flexible wall portion with the housing or cavity. 6. The device as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the incompressible liquid is oil. 7. The device as claimed in claim 6 , wherein the enclosure is sealed from the chamber by a flexible membrane. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the at least one port includes connection for flexible tubing. 9. The device as claimed in claim 8 , wherein the housing includes an inlet port and an outlet port and both inlet and outlet ports include connection for flexible tubing. 10. An assembly comprising the device according to claim wherein a first flexible tube extends from the inlet port and a second flexible tube extend from the outlet port. 11. A hydrocephalus shunt comprising the assembly as claimed in claim 10 and a shunt valve connected with the flexible tube extending from the outlet port. 12. The device as claimed in claim 1 , including an interface from the pressure sensor to a controller. 13. The device as claimed in claim 12 , including a controller connected to the pressure sensor, an external communications interface connected with the controller and a power supply connected to supply power to the controller. 14. A system including the device as claimed in claim 1 including a processor programmed to process data from the pressure sensor in a calibration method comprising identifying a pressure data point from the pressure sensor that corresponds with a time when the compliance of the chamber changes. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14 , wherein the program identifies the time when the compliance of the chamber changes by identifying a knee feature in a pressure data series recorded over the duration of a calibration event. 16. The system as claimed in claim 15 , wherein the program identifies a knee feature according to distinct changes in gradient of pressure over time. 17. The system as claimed in claim 14 , wherein the program sets a zero offset for use in relation to the pressure sensor based on the recorded output of the pressure at the identified time. 18. The system as claimed in claim 17 , wherein the program sets a zero offset for use in relation to the pressure sensor based on the result of multiple instances of the calibration method. 19. The system as claimed in claim 18 , wherein the program compares the results of multiple instances of the calibration method and discards at least some of the results in calculating a new zero offset for the pressure sensor.