source: https://patents.google.com/patent/US11701504B2/en
retrieved: 2026-09-04 (direct curl, user-agent Mozilla/5.0)
claim_section_chars: 6878

Claims ( 20 ) What is claimed is: 1. A hydrocephalus shunt pressure sensing apparatus comprising: a ventricular catheter; a distal catheter; a reservoir connecting the ventricular catheter and the distal catheter to form a hydrocephalus shunt; a pigtail catheter connected to the ventricular catheter; and a wireless sensor device sensing on the ventricular pigtail catheter, the wireless sensor device comprising: an electronic pressure sensor; a microprocessor connected with the electronic pressure sensor; a wireless data transmitter connected with the microprocessor; and an antenna connected with the wireless data transmitter. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the electronic pressure sensor has a pressure sensitive membrane, the wireless sensor device further comprising: an oil chamber encapsulating the pressure sensitive membrane, the oil chamber filled with a biocompatible oil and having a pliable membrane on at least one side. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising: a rigid cage arrayed over the pliable membrane. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the wireless sensor device further comprises: a wireless power receiver connected with the microprocessor, wherein the wireless power receiver is configured to convert radio frequency (RF) energy into instantaneous electricity for the electronic pressure sensor, the microprocessor, and the wireless data transmitter, wherein the instantaneous electricity causes the electronic pressure sensor, the microprocessor, and the wireless data transmitter to take a pressure measurement and transmit a value based on the pressure measurement. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a reader embedded within a pillow or a wearable cap configured to direct RF energy compatible with powering the wireless power receiver into a subject in which the hydrocephalus shunt pressure sensing apparatus is implanted. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the wireless sensor device further comprises: a temperature sensor connected with the microprocessor, wherein the microprocessor is configured to compensate pressure measurements based on input from the temperature sensor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a valve connected with the ventricular catheter or the distal catheter; and a command wire connecting the microprocessor to the valve. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a common housing surrounding the electronic pressure sensor, the microprocessor, and the wireless data transmitter. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the hydrocephalus shunt pressure sensing apparatus includes no more than 1 gram of ferromagnetic material and no more than 5 grams of metal, thereby allowing compatibility with a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the ventricular catheter is suitable as a ventricular or a lumboperitoneal catheter, and the distal catheter is suitable as a peritoneal catheter or a ventriculoatrial catheter. 11. A method of manufacturing a hydrocephalus shunt pressure sensor, the method comprising: providing an electronic pressure sensor; connecting a microprocessor to the electronic pressure sensor, a wireless data transmitter to the microprocessor, and an antenna to the wireless data transmitter to form a wireless sensor device; affixing the wireless sensor device to a pigtail catheter; and connecting the pigtail catheter to a ventricular catheter of a hydrocephalus shunt, the hydrocephalus shunt having the ventricular catheter, a distal catheter, and a reservoir configured to connect the ventricular catheter and the distal catheter. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the electronic pressure sensor has a pressure sensitive membrane and the wireless sensor device further comprises: an oil chamber encapsulating the pressure sensitive membrane, the oil chamber filled with a biocompatible oil and having a pliable membrane on at least one side. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the wireless sensor device further comprises: a temperature sensor connected with the microprocessor, wherein the microprocessor is configured to compensate pressure measurements based on input from the temperature sensor. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the wireless sensor device further comprises: a valve connected with the ventricular catheter or the distal catheter; and a command wire connecting the microprocessor to the valve. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the hydrocephalus shunt pressure sensor includes no more than 1 gram of ferromagnetic material and no more than 5 grams of metal, thereby allowing compatibility with a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner. 16. A method of reading an implanted hydrocephalus shunt pressure sensor, the method comprising: placing a reader onto a subject's head, the subject's head having implanted therein a hydrocephalus shunt with a wireless sensor device affixed to a pigtail catheter, the pigtail catheter connected to a ventricular catheter of the hydrocephalus shunt, the wireless sensor device comprising an electronic pressure sensor, a microprocessor connected with the electronic pressure sensor, a wireless data transmitter connected with the microprocessor, and an antenna connected with the wireless data transmitter; directing radio frequency (RF) energy toward the wireless sensor device; converting the RF energy to electricity for the electronic pressure sensor, the microprocessor, and the wireless data transmitter, wherein the electricity causes the electronic pressure sensor, the microprocessor, and the wireless data transmitter to take a pressure measurement and transmit a value based on the pressure measurement; and automatically powering down the electronic pressure sensor, the microprocessor, and the wireless data transmitter by halting the RF energy to the wireless sensor device. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the electronic pressure sensor has a pressure sensitive membrane and the wireless sensor device further comprises: an oil chamber encapsulating the pressure sensitive membrane, the oil chamber filled with a biocompatible oil and having a pliable membrane on at least one side. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the wireless sensor device further comprises: a temperature sensor connected with the microprocessor, wherein the microprocessor is configured to compensate pressure measurements based on input from the temperature sensor. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the wireless sensor device further comprises: a valve connected with the ventricular catheter or a distal catheter of the hydrocephalus shunt; and a command wire connecting the microprocessor to the valve. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein the hydrocephalus shunt pressure sensor includes no more than 1 gram of ferromagnetic material and no more than 5 grams of metal, thereby allowing compatibility with a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner.