source: https://patents.google.com/patent/WO2014076620A2/en
retrieved: 2026-09-04 (direct curl, user-agent Mozilla/5.0)
claim_section_chars: 10063

Claims 1. A method, comprising: in a living organ in which an ambient pressure varies as a function of time, sensing the ambient pressure using a pressure sensor, which has a capacitance that varies in response to the ambient pressure, so as to produce a time-varying waveform; applying to the pressure sensor a calibration voltage that modifies the capacitance and thus the time-varying waveform; processing the time-varying waveform so as to isolate and measure a contribution of the calibration voltage to the waveform; and calibrating a dependence of the capacitance on the ambient pressure using the measured contribution of the calibration voltage. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein applying the calibration voltage comprises automatically identifying one or more time intervals in which the waveform meets a predefined criterion, and applying the calibration voltage during the identified time intervals. 3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the ambient pressure oscillates as a function of time in accordance with a periodic cycle, and wherein applying the calibration voltage comprises activating the calibration voltage at a predefined phase of the cycle. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein applying the calibration voltage comprises activating the calibration voltage during a portion of the periodic cycle in which the waveform varies by less than a predefined variation. 5. The method according to claim 3, wherein applying the calibration voltage comprises activating the calibration voltage at the phase of the cycle in which the waveform has a predefined value. 6. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein processing the waveform comprises analyzing the waveform so as to automatically identify one or more times at which the calibration voltage is applied, and measuring the contribution of the calibration voltage at the automatically-identified times. 7. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein applying the calibration voltage comprises activating the calibration voltage at one or more predefined times, and wherein processing the waveform comprises measuring the contribution by synchronizing to the predefined times. 8. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein processing the waveform comprises identifying one or more first times at which the calibration voltage is applied, identifying one or more second times at which the calibration voltage is not applied, and measuring the contribution of the calibration voltage by comparing the waveform at the first times to the waveform at the second times. 9. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein applying the calibration voltage comprises applying at least two different calibration voltage levels. 10. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein processing the waveform comprises determining a level of the calibration voltage that causes the capacitance to reach a given capacitance value. 11. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein processing the waveform comprises determining a level of the calibration voltage that triggers a discrete event related to electrodes of the pressure sensor. 12. A method, comprising: in a living organ in which an ambient pressure varies as a function of time, sensing the ambient pressure using a pressure sensor, which has a capacitance that varies in response to the ambient pressure; operating an oscillator circuit, which is coupled to the pressure sensor such that an output of the oscillator circuit depends on the capacitance and thus varies depending on the ambient pressure; modifying an operating point of the oscillator circuit, so as to apply to the pressure sensor a calibration voltage that modifies the capacitance; sensing a change in the output of the oscillator circuit caused by the calibration voltage; and calibrating a dependence of the capacitance on the ambient pressure using the sensed change. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein modifying the operating point comprises modifying a supply voltage of the oscillator circuit. 14. The method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein operating the oscillator circuit comprises adjusting a frequency of the output of the oscillator circuit as a function of the capacitance. 15. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein operating the oscillator circuit comprises operating a Schmidt trigger that is connected in a feedback loop comprising the pressure sensor. 16. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein operating the oscillator circuit comprises switching the oscillator circuit between the pressure sensor and a reference capacitance, and wherein calibrating the dependence comprises comparing first and second outputs of the oscillator circuit when connected to the pressure sensor and to the reference capacitance, respectively. 17. Apparatus, comprising: a pressure sensor, which is configured to be fitted in a living organ in which an ambient pressure varies as a function of time, and to sense the ambient pressure using a capacitance that varies in response to the ambient pressure, so as to produce a time-varying waveform; and calibration circuitry, which is configured to apply to the pressure sensor a calibration voltage that modifies the capacitance and thus the time-varying waveform, to process the time- varying waveform so as to isolate and measure a contribution of the calibration voltage to the waveform, and to calibrate a dependence of the capacitance on the ambient pressure using the measured contribution of the calibration voltage. 18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to automatically identify one or more time intervals in which the waveform meets a predefined criterion, and to apply the calibration voltage during the identified time intervals. 19. The apparatus according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the ambient pressure oscillates as a function of time in accordance with a periodic cycle, and wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to apply the calibration voltage at a predefined phase of the cycle. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to apply the calibration voltage during a portion of the periodic cycle in which the waveform varies by less than a predefined variation. 21. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to apply the calibration voltage at the phase of the cycle in which the waveform has a predefined value. 22. The apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to analyze the waveform so as to automatically identify one or more times at which the calibration voltage is applied, and to measure the contribution of the calibration voltage at the automatically-identified times. 23. The apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the calibration circuitry comprises first circuitry that is coupled to the pressure sensor and is configured to apply the calibration voltage at one or more predefined times, and second circuitry that is external to the organ and is configured to measure the contribution by synchronizing to the predefined times. 24. The apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to identify one or more first times at which the calibration voltage is applied, to identify one or more second times at which the calibration voltage is not applied, and to measure the contribution of the calibration voltage by comparing the waveform at the first times to the waveform at the second times. 25. The apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein applying the calibration voltage comprises applying at least two different calibration voltage levels. 26. The apparatus according to claim 17 or 18, wherein processing the waveform comprises determining a level of the calibration voltage that causes the capacitance to reach a given capacitance value. 27. The apparatus according to claim 17 or 18, wherein processing the waveform comprises determining a level of the calibration voltage that triggers a discrete event related to electrodes of the pressure sensor. 28. Apparatus, comprising: a pressure sensor, which is configured to be fitted in a living organ in which an ambient pressure varies as a function of time, and to sense the ambient pressure using a capacitance that varies in response to the ambient pressure; an oscillator circuit, which is coupled to the pressure sensor and is configured to oscillate such that an output of the oscillator circuit depends on the capacitance and thus varies depending on the ambient pressure; and calibration circuitry, which is configured to modify an operating point of the oscillator circuit so as to apply to the pressure sensor a calibration voltage that modifies the capacitance, to sense a change in the output of the oscillator circuit caused by the calibration voltage, and to calibrate a dependence of the capacitance on the ambient pressure using the sensed change. 29. The apparatus according to claim 28, wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to modify the operating point by modifying a supply voltage of the oscillator circuit. 30. The apparatus according to claim 28 or 29, wherein the oscillator circuit is configured to adjust a frequency of the output of the oscillator circuit as a function of the capacitance. 31. The apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the oscillator circuit comprises a Schmidt trigger that is connected in a feedback loop comprising the pressure sensor. 32. The apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the calibration circuitry is configured to switch the oscillator circuit between the pressure sensor and a reference capacitance, and to calibrate the dependence by comparing first and second outputs of the oscillator circuit when connected to the pressure sensor and to the reference capacitance, respectively.