Claims ( 19 ) What is claimed is: 1. An expandable scraper device, the device comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a flexible inner elongate member slidably disposed within a flexible outer elongate member, and one or more projections on the elongate shaft, wherein at least one of the one or more projections is positioned in a middle region of the elongate shaft; an expandable braided basket coupled at a proximal end to a distal end region of the flexible outer elongate member and at a distal end to a distal end region of the flexible inner elongate member, wherein the expandable braided basket is configured to deform from an unexpanded configuration of wires into an expanded configuration so that a portion of the flexible inner elongate member within the expandable braided basket is non-concentric with the expandable braided basket; and a proximal handle comprising a control configured to slide the flexible inner elongate member relative to the flexible outer elongate member to expand the expandable braided basket, and a lock on the proximal handle configured to receive one of the one or more projections from a proximal direction and to releasably lock onto the one of the one or more projections as the one of the one or more projections is pulled distally, to form a loop of the elongate shaft and to decrease an effective length of the elongate shaft. 2. The device of claim 1 , wherein the expandable braided basket comprises a superelastic alloy material. 3. The device of claim 2 , wherein the superelastic alloy material is shape-set to return to the unexpanded configuration. 4. The device of claim 1 , wherein a diameter of the wires of the expandable braided basket is between 0.15 mm and 0.35 mm. 5. The device of claim 1 , wherein the elongate shaft is between 50 and 180 cm. 6. The device of claim 1 , wherein the expandable braided basket has a length of between 3 and 10 cm in the unexpanded configuration. 7. The device of claim 1 , wherein the expandable braided basket is formed of between 20 and 60 wires. 8. The device of claim 1 , wherein the expandable braided basket is braided in one of: a 1×1 braid pattern, a 1×2 braid pattern or a 2×2 braid pattern. 9. The device of claim 1 , wherein the control on the proximal handle is a slider coupled to the flexible inner elongate member. 10. The device of claim 1 , wherein the expandable braided basket has a diameter of less than 3.3 mm in the unexpanded configuration, and a diameter of between 5 mm and 40 mm in the expanded configuration. 11. The device of claim 1 , further comprising a guidewire lumen extending through the flexible inner elongate member of the elongate shaft. 12. The device of claim 1 , wherein the lock comprises a tapered channel on an outer surface of the proximal handle. 13. The device of claim 1 , wherein the one or more projections comprises a plurality of projections spaced apart from each other by more than 10 cm. 14. An expandable scraper device, the device comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a flexible inner elongate member slidably disposed within a flexible outer elongate member, and one or more projections on the elongate shaft, wherein at least one of the one or more projections is positioned in a middle region of the elongate shaft; an expandable braided basket coupled at a proximal end to a distal end region of the flexible outer elongate member and at a distal end to a distal end region of the flexible inner elongate member having a length of between 3 and 10 cm in an unexpanded configuration, wherein the expandable braided basket is formed of between 20 and 60 nickel titanium wires each having a diameter of between 0.15 mm and 0.35 mm, and is configured to deform from the unexpanded configuration into an expanded configuration so that a portion of the flexible inner elongate member within the expandable braided basket is non-concentric with the expandable braided basket, further wherein the expandable braided basket is shape set to return to the unexpanded configuration in an unconstrained state; and a proximal handle comprising a control configured to slide the flexile inner elongate member relative to the outer flexible elongate member to expand the expandable braided basket, and a lock on the proximal handle configured to receive one of the one or more projections from a proximal direction and to releasably lock onto the one of the one or more projections as the one of the one or more projections is pulled distally, to form a loop of the elongate shaft and to decrease an effective length of the elongate shaft. 15. The device of claim 14 , wherein the control on the proximal handle is a slider coupled to the flexible inner elongate member. 16. The device of claim 14 , wherein the expandable braided basket has a diameter of less than 3.3 mm in the unexpanded configuration. 17. The device of claim 14 , wherein the expandable braided basket forms a pattern of pores having a pore area of between 1.2 and 5 mm2 in the expanded configuration. 18. The device of claim 14 , wherein the lock comprises a tapered channel on an outer surface of the proximal handle. 19. The device of claim 14 , wherein the one or more projections comprises a plurality of projections spaced apart from each other by more than 10 cm.